---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A Wonderful Journey Through Software Engineering
date: 2021-12-16
labels:
- Software Engineering
- Learning
- Agile Project Management
- Coding Standards
- User Interface Frameworks
- Javascript
---

## A Plethora of Skills Earned Through the Journey
Many think the greatest reward in any kind of adventure is the end of the adventure such as a receiving a final grade for a class or good results on a project you have been working on. I vouch that the greatest reward of any kind of adventure is the journey and all of the skills and knowledge obtained from it. I have felt this exact experience throughout my time in my Introduction to Software Engineering class known as ICS 314. Coming into the class I felt intimidated by seeing the amount of work I had to do, but now coming out of the class I felt I have learned essential knowledge and skills to not only be successful in web development but also in other aspects of computer science and project management. With a plethora of skills and knowledge obtained from this class, I felt the most impactful on me are Agile Project Management, Coding Standards, and User Interface Frameworks.

## Agile Project Management, the Answer to a Frustrating Problem
Before taking ICS 314, I have had problems with working on larger projects with a team of other people. The main problems I experienced were how some tasks were finished on time to begin the next tasks (also called being blocked), people forgetting what their tasks are, and a lack on communication on the details of the task. All of these problems were very frustrating to me and I knew there had to be a better way to work with a team. ICS 314 taught me about Agile Project Management which is an approach that requires taking incremental steps towards the completion of a project. With this being said, ICS 314 introduced me to a type of Agile Project Management called Issue Driven Project Management. This type of project management consists of dividing small tasks to all people in the team. Each task must be completed within 2 days so that depedent tasks in the future can begin and another developer doesnt become blocked for too long. Each task corresponds to one issue in which the focus of the task is to solve this issue. Each commit made for a specific task has a description of what was done to help solve the issue for that specific issue. In ICS 314, I was assigned to a team to create a web app using this type of project management. At first, I have admit I felt restricted with all of these rules, but once I got the hang of it I loved it because it enhanced communication throughout the group and made development much more organized and efficient. Below is an example of how Issue Driven Project Management was used in my team by using a Github project board which seperated tasks by either not started, in progress, or completed: 

### Issue Driven Project Management Put to Use


As you can see in the picture above, all tasks are placed in the done column since the project has been completed. Each task displayed has a person assigned to it, a detailed title for the task and instructions on what the task is solving.
Issue Driven Project Management solves my problem since it provides the necessary structure to developing a successful application. I can apply these skills to many other types of projects such as building an operating system for a computer for example. Taking the Issue Driven Project Management approach in this case would form the issues of creating an operating system into tasks and then dividing theses tasks amongst all the developers. Once a task is complete, the code is committed to the master branch (final source code which all developers can see). This takes the incremental approach as mentioned before and allows for efficient development of the operating system. In this case of my interests, I can apply Issue Driven Project Management to iOS development. Working with a team of people, we can split up certain issues of creating an iOS app amongst each other such as the UI, the database, the frontend, etc, and even split those up into smaller issues, making the project easier to complete in an incremental way. With that said, this type of project management helped me greatly realized how to complete a project with a team of people. 

## Efficiency and Organization Accomplished with Coding Standards
Coding standards are standards for specific coding languages that people abide by for clearer and more concise code. At first coding standards felt unnecessary to me and more of a hassle than helpful. It felt like a restriction to my freedom of coding and organization. However, after getting use to coding standards through ICS 314, I felt it was a very necessary skill to learn just by the fact that it makes communication entirely easy between team members in web development. I found through my final project in ICS 314 that reading my team members code which follow coding standards was very easy to understand and was very organized which made it easier for me to use this code to build upon the project. With that, I learned that coding standards eliminates the ambiguity of the organization and syntax of the code and only requires serious thought on the semantics and logic of the code. This makes web development much more organized and efficient. 

With that being said, coding standards can be used in many different project contexts rather than just web development. Any kind of project which requires multiple people programming in the same language who need to understand each others code is a project that would very well suited for the use of coding standards. An example of this would be the use of coding standards in life dependent settings such as software used in hospitals. It is very much assumed that these pieces of software were developed with multiple people. If there is no coding standard, there is a higher probability that there will be a mistake in the code due to the lack or organization which could result in a bad consequence in such a setting. With that said, a coding standard used between the developers of the software would help prevent such mistakes. In the case for me, one of my interests other than web development is developing video games. Coding standards would be vital in creating these games with a large number of developers as it clears up communication in the code between developers and makes production much more efficient. Another reason coding standards would fit well in the context of video game development is when the video game needs to be updated in the future. When developers go back to make an update on a video game they will need to understand the source code from the original video game so that they can make the update successful. These developers would definently not want their audience to be kept waiting until and update is make, coding standards used on the original code makes it much easier to read and make adjustments to the code therefore making development of the update much more efficient. In all, learning about coding standards in my ICS 314 class made a huge impact on me and how I look at working with a team of people to develop software.

## Life Made Easier with User Interface Frameworks
The summer before taking ICS 314 I focused on creating some of my own personal projects involving iOS applications that have a database, backend, and frontend. The app required the frontend to produce a user interface for the user so that they knew how to direct through the application. A user interface or UI is a view on an application which allows the user to navigate through the app and interact with the app such as inputting data into fields when necessary. The problem I had when making the user interface on these applications was that the UI looked very poor and dis-functional despite other aspects of the app to be just fine. I also felt that I was putting in a lot of effort into the UI for it to not even look the way I wanted it to look. With that, ICS 314 has acquired me with the knowledge of User Interface Frameworks. A UI Framework is a set of classes that are used to define the look of certain elements on a system which builds the overall UI structure of the application. These frameworks allow developers to create very nice looking, organized UI for an application without putting in too much work or thought into creating it. An example of a UI framework would be the Facebook created framework called React. During ICS 314, I used the frameworks, React and Semantic UI to create the user interface for websites which was much easier than plain old HTML and CSS and also created a much better result.

With that said, I thought of this to be a huge breakthrough for me because now I can focus more on the functionality of the app rather than spend a ton of time of the UI. UI frameworks can be applied to many other project contexts other than web development. I can use UI frameworks to create a nice looking UI for a machine that requires a user to interact with the machine such as an ATM machine or cash register. I know that some cash registers are programmed in Java and Java has many UI frameworks just like Javascript. One Java framework that I was introduced to in ICS 111, Introduction to Programming, is the Java Swing framework which can be used to display what the the program is doing to the user so that the user can interact with it. I can possibly use the Swing framework to build a successful UI for a cash register. This is just one application of UI frameworks, but another application that involves more of my interests in computer science would iOS development. Bringing back what I said before about my personal projects over the summer, I now have a much better idea on how to deal with UI in my iOS applications. Using a UI framework will bring so much more power to my applications by making them look very nice without putting in too much effort. I plan on conducting more research on great UI frameworks used for teh Swift programming language so that I can apply my knowledge of UI frameworks to make amazing looking apps.


## The Journey Never Ends
My time in ICS 314 can be described as a golden age of knowledge. Not only did I learn how to make great web applications, but I also learned many skills that can be used outside the scope of this. It also taught me team work skills and how developers work together to develop software. I came out of this course much more knowledgeable about software engineering and project management which is what I want to do in the future. Throughout this journey, every topic we went over made me excited and wanted to apply it to my own projects. I plan on continuing this journey of learning of software engineering not only through other classes but through my own personal research as a developer. Referencing what I said previously, the final grade or project for this class does not mean as much as the skills and knowledge I learned in ICS 314, and I plan on applying these to many projects in many different contexts of computer science.