---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: ADD A NAME!!
date: 2021-12-16
labels:
- Software Engineering
- Learning
- Agile Project Management
- Coding Standards
- User Interface Frameworks
---

## A Plethora of Skills Earned Through the Journey
Many think the greatest reward in any kind of adventure is the end of the adventure such as a receiving a final grade for a class or good results on a project you have been working on. I vouch that the greatest reward of any kind of adventure is the journey and all of the skills and knowledge obtained from it. I have felt this exact experience throughout my time in my Introduction to Software Engineering class known as ICS 314. Coming into the class I felt intimidated by seeing the amount of work I had to do, but now coming out of the class I felt I have learned essential knowledge and skills to not only be successful in web development but also in other aspects of computer science and project management. With a plethora of skills and knowledge obtained from this class, I felt the most impactful on me are Agile Project Management, Coding Standards, and User Interface Frameworks.

## Agile Project Management
Before taking ICS 314, I have had problems with working on larger projects with a team of other people. The main problems I experienced were how some tasks were finished on time to begin the next tasks (also called being blocked), people forgetting what their tasks are, and a lack on communication on the details of the task. All of these problems were very frustrating to me and I knew there had to be a better way to work with team. With this being said, ICS 314 introduced me to a type of Agile Project Management called Issue Driven Project Management. This type of project management consists of dividing small tasks to all people in the team. Each task must be completed within 2 days so that depedent tasks in the future can begin and another developer doesnt become blocked for too long. Each task corresponds to one issue in which the focus of the task is to solve this issue. Each commit made for a specific task has a description of what was done to help solve the issue for that specific issue. In ICS 314, I was assigned to a team to create a web app using this type of project management. At first, I have admit I felt restricted with all of these rules, but once I got the hang of it I loved it because it enhanced communication throughout the group and made development much more organized and efficient. With that said, I feel I can apply this skill to projects outside of web application development. Issue Driven Project Management can be applied to any kind of problem involving multiple people.

## Coding Standards
Coding standards are standards for specific coding languages that people abide by for clearer and more concise code. At first coding standards felt unnecessary to me and more of a hassle than helpful. It felt like a restriction to my freedom of coding and organization. However, after getting use to coding standards through ICS 314, I felt it was a very necessary skill to learn just by the fact that it makes communication entirely easy between team members in web development. I found through my final project in ICS 314 that reading my team members code which follow coding standards was very easy to understand and was very organized which made it easier for me to use this code to build upon the project. With that, I learned that coding standards eliminates the ambiguity of the organization and syntax of the code and only requires serious thought on the semantics and logic of the code. This makes web development much more organized and efficient. With that being said, coding standards can be used in many different project contexts rather than just web development. Any kind of project which requires multiple people programming in the same language who need to understand each others code is a project that would very well suited for the use of coding standards. An example of this would be the use of coding standards in life dependent settings such as software used in hospitals. It is very much assumed that these pieces of software were developed with multiple people. If there is no coding standard, there is a higher probability that there will be a mistake in the code due to the lack or organization which could result in a bad consequence in such a setting. With that said, a coding standard used between the developers of the software would help prevent such mistakes. In the case for me, one of my interests other than web development is developing video games. Coding standards would be vital in creating these games with a large number of developers as it clears up communication in the code between developers and makes production much more efficient. In all, learning about coding standards in my ICS 314 class made a huge impact on me and how I look at working with a team of people to develop software.
